Description
translated from Chinese
[0046] ?2????1?????????????????????????????????(NBTQ??1???????????????????????????NBTS????????2,(a)?????????????????????NBTS???,(b)????????????????????????????????NBTS??????2??,??????????(c)?,NBTS??????????????????(a)??NBTS?????,????,????????,??????????????????????
The organic light emitting display device

[0001] This application claims priority of Korean Patent Application No. 10-2009-0115189 interest in November 2009 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on May Shen, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

TECHNICAL FIELD

[0002] The present invention relates to an organic light emitting display device, and more particularly, to a thin film transistor (TFT) organic light emitting display device.

Background technique

[0003] The active matrix type organic light emitting display device includes a thin film transistor (TFT) electrically connected to the TFT and the organic light emitting diode (OLED) in each pixel.

SUMMARY

[0004] The aspect of the present invention is an organic light emitting display device, which prevents the light incident from the organic light emitting device emitted to the thin film transistor (TFT) active layer.

[0005] Another aspect is an organic light emitting display device, an organic light emitting display device comprising: a thin film transistor (TFT); the organic light emitting device, formed on the TFT and electrically connected to the TFT, wherein the barrier emitted from the organic light-emitting devices the light blocking member disposed on at least a portion of the TFT, so that the light emitted from the organic light emitting device is not directly incident to the TFT.

[0006] The light blocking member may be provided on the light incident from the organic light emitting device emitted to the TFT path through.

[0007] Another aspect is an organic light emitting display device, an organic light emitting display device comprising: at least one thin film transistor (the TFT), an active layer is formed on a substrate and includes a gate, and the gate insulating respectively contact the active source and drain layer; a first plurality of electrodes formed on the at least one TFT; a plurality of pixel defining layers (the PDL), is formed between the first plurality of electrodes; a plurality of organic layers, formed on the plurality of first electrodes and the plurality of the PDL; a second electrode formed on the organic layer and the plurality of the plurality of the PDL, in which, on at least one of the plurality of organic layers, a plurality of a plurality of holes are formed in the PDL.

[0008] The second electrode may be formed in the PDL holes. The second electrode is formed in the PDL of the hole can be reflected from a portion of the organic layer emits light. The second electrode is formed in the PDL of openings to prevent direct access to the TFT from light emitted from the organic layer.

[0009] The hole can be formed to surround the active layer. Holes may have a ring shape and may be formed in the PDL along the peripheral portion of the active layer. Holes may be formed such that the shortest distance between the source and the drain hole is less than the wavelength of blue light. The active layer may include an oxide semiconductor.

[0010] Another aspect is an organic light emitting display device, the organic light emitting display device comprising: a thin film transistor (TFT); the organic light emitting device electrically connected to the TFT; light blocking member, is formed in at least a portion of the TFT directly and it is configured to prevent the light emitted from the organic light emitting device into the portion of the TFT.

[0011] In the above device, the light blocking member is disposed on the light incident from the organic light emitting device emitted to the TFT path through. In the above device, TFT including an active layer, wherein the light blocking member is formed as a substantially straight light in the active layer of the TFT, thereby preventing emitted directly into the active layer. In the above device, the light blocking member is non-linear.

[0012] Another aspect is an organic light emitting display device, the organic light emitting display device comprising: a thin film transistor (the TFT), is formed on a substrate, wherein, the TFT comprising i) a gate electrode, II) has the gate insulating source layer and iii) contact with the active layer of source and drain electrodes; a first electrode formed over the TFT; pixel defining layer (the PDL), is formed on the TFT and formed on at least a portion of a first electrode; organic light emitting layer formed on the first portion of the first electrode and the PDL on; a second electrode formed on the second portion of the organic layer and the PDL, in which at least one side of the organic light emitting layer, a plurality of openings formed in the PDL.

[0013] In the above device, the second electrode is formed in an opening in the PDL. In the above apparatus the second electrode, the openings formed in the PDL is configured to reflect a portion of light emitted from the organic layer. Said second electrode means, an opening is formed in the PDL is configured to prevent the light emitted from the organic layer into the TFT. In the above device, an opening is formed in the active layer is substantially directly above. In the above device, the opening and having an annular shape along the peripheral portion of the active layer is formed in the PDL.

[0014] In the above device, the blue light is formed smaller than the wavelength of the opening such that the shortest distance between the opening between the source and the drain. In the above device, the active layer is formed of an oxide semiconductor. In the above device, the area of ??the second portion of the PDL is larger than the area of ??the first portion of the PDL. In the above device, the distance between the substrate and the organic light emitting layer between the substrate and the distance between the openings is substantially the same.

[0015] Another aspect is an organic light emitting display device, the organic light emitting display device comprising: a thin film transistor (TFT) and electrically connected to the organic light emitting diode (OLED) device, wherein, OLED device comprising: i) a first electrode, the contact TFT; II) the organic light emitting layer formed on the first electrode; III) a second electrode formed on the organic light emitting layer, wherein the second electrode is located substantially directly at least a portion having a non-linear over the TFT section.

[0016] In the above device, the TFT comprising: a gate electrode formed over the substrate; a gate insulating layer, and a gate electrode formed on the substrate; an active layer, is formed on the gate insulating layer, wherein the active layer forming at least a portion of the non-linear portion substantially directly above the gate electrode, is located substantially directly above said active layer; source and drain electrodes, the contact of the active layer.

[0017] In the above device, the organic light emitting display apparatus further comprising: a passivation layer covering the TFT; pixel defining layer formed on the passivation layer, wherein the at least one opening in the pixel defining layer defining said at least a portion of the non-linear portion formed in the opening. In the above device, the non-linear portion and said opening is formed substantially directly above the active layer. In the above device, the opening is formed with an opening such that the shortest distance between the source and the drain is smaller than the wavelength of blue light. In the above device, the passivation layer contacting the non-linear portion.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION

[0018] FIG. 1 is a sectional view showing an embodiment of an organic light emitting display apparatus of the present invention.

[0019] FIG. 2 is a diagram showing an organic light emitting display device includes an oxide semiconductor light blocking member when the negative bias thermal stability (NBTS, negative bias thermal stability) and Fig. 1 organic light emitting display device not included in the graph light blocking member when the oxide semiconductor NBTS.

[0020] FIG. 3 is a diagram showing a cross-sectional view of the conventional organic light emitting display device.

detailed description

[0021] TFT active layers are typically formed of polysilicon or amorphous silicon. Recently, attempts have been formed using an oxide semiconductor active layer. However, the characteristics of an oxide semiconductor such as the threshold voltage, S may be due to factors such as water infiltration from the outside, oxygen or light changes. Further, during the driving TFT, so that the gate DC bias voltage due to water, oxygen or the threshold voltage change caused by light increases. Therefore, the biggest problem is the use of an oxide semiconductor DC stability. To improve the barrier properties of the oxide semiconductor water or oxygen, using AlOx layer or TiN layer. However, by using a reactive sputtering method or an atomic layer deposition (ALD) method to form these layers, it is difficult to apply them to large-sized substrates, and low production layer.

[0022] Reference will now be more fully described in the accompanying drawings embodiments of the present invention, shown in the drawings exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

[0023] FIG. 1 is a sectional view showing an embodiment of an organic light emitting display apparatus of the present invention. Referring to Figure 1, a thin film transistor (TFT) 2 and an organic light-emitting device 3 is disposed on the substrate 1. In Figure 1, for the convenience of explanation, it shows a portion of the organic light emitting device of a pixel in the display. However, the organic light emitting display device may include a plurality of pixels.

[0024] TFT 2 comprising: i) the gate electrode 21, formed on the substrate 1; ii) a gate insulating layer 22, covering the gate electrode 21; III) an active layer 23, is formed on the gate insulating layer 22; IV) insulating layers 24, 22 formed on the gate insulating layer 23 to cover the active layer; v) a source electrode 25 and the drain sink, the insulating layer is formed in contact with the active layer and the M 23.

[0025] Although Figure 1 TFT 2 is a bottom gate type TFT, you can also use a top-gate type TFT. The buffer layer (not shown) such as a silicon oxide inorganic material may also be formed on the substrate 1.

[0026] The conductive material may be used as a gate electrode 21 is formed in a single layer or a multilayer. The gate 21 may contain molybdenum. 22 by the gate insulating layer of silicon oxide, aluminum oxide, or tantalum oxide is formed, but is not limited thereto.

[0027] In one embodiment, the patterned active layer 23 is formed on the gate insulating layer 22 and substantially directly above the gate electrode 21. An oxide semiconductor active layer 23 may be formed. For example, the active layer 23 may be a (In2O3) b (Ga2O3) c (ZnO) layer (GIZ-0 layer), wherein, a, b and c respectively satisfy a Pie 0, b 0 and c San> 0 is real number.

[0028] In one embodiment, the insulating layer is formed to cover the most M of the active layer 23. To protect the active channel layer insulating layer 23 23a. In one embodiment, shown in Figure 1, the insulating cover layer M except portions of the active layer 23 and the drain electrode 25 in contact with the source 26 of the active layer 23, but is not limited thereto. Although not shown in FIG. 1, the insulating layer may be formed only on the M channel 23a.

[0029] The source electrode and the drain electrode 25 is formed on the insulating layer, Shen M on the active layer 23 to the contact. Passivation layer 27 is formed on the insulating layer to cover the source electrode M 25 and the drain 26. A first electrode contacting the organic light emitting device 3 of the sink drain 31 are formed on the passivation layer 27.

[0030] The pixel defining layer exposing a portion of a first electrode 31 (PDL08 is formed on the passivation layer 27, the organic layer 32 and the second electrode 33 is formed on the first electrode 31 is exposed by the PDL View. Organic light emitting layer is formed portion of the pixel defining layer of the first portion of the pixel defining layer and the pixel defining layer is formed only of the second pixel portion of the pixel defining layer second portion, the second portion of the pixel defining layer than the area of ??the first layer is a pixel defining a large part of the area.

[0031] In one embodiment, the PDL is formed to cover the concept of the first end portion 31 of the electrode. In addition to defining a light emitting region outside, PDL 28 along a direction toward the first electrode 31 and the edge of the second electrode 33 and the second electrode 31 to broaden the distance between the first electrode 33, thereby preventing the electric field concentration at the end of the first electrode 31 portion. Thus preventing short between the first electrode 31 and second electrode 33 between. In one embodiment, PDL28 prevent the light emitted from the organic layer 32 into the TFT 2, which will be described in detail below.

[0032] In one embodiment, by patterning the first electrode 31 is formed in each pixel. Front emission type organic light emitting display apparatus (in which an image is formed toward the second electrode 33), the first electrode 31 may be a reflective electrode. To this end, the reflective layer may be an alloy by Al, Ag or the like is formed as the first electrode 31 is formed.

[0033] When the first electrode 31 serves as an anode electrode, e.g., electrode 31 comprises a first layer made of such ??0, ??0 SiO or metal oxide having a high work function (absolute value) of the formation. When the first electrode 31 serves as a cathode electrode, the first electrode 31 may include a highly conductive metal having a low work function (absolute value), e.g., Ag, Mg, Al, Pt, Pd, Au, Ni, Nd, ir, Cr, Li or Ca. Therefore, in this case, the reflective layer may not be necessary. [0034] The second electrode 33 may be a light-transmitting electrode. To this end, the second electrode 33 may comprise a semi-transmissive reflective layer, the semi-transmissive reflective layer comprises a film composed of such as Ag, Mg, Al, Pt, Pd, Au, Ni, Nd, Ir, Cr, Li, or Ca form, or including such ??0, ??0 or SiO transmissive metal oxides. When the first electrode 31 is used as an anode, the second electrode 33 as a cathode. Further, when the first electrode 31 as a cathode, the second electrode 33 is used as an anode.

[0035] disposed on the first electrode 31 and second electrode 33 between the organic layer 32 may be formed as a stacked structure, the stacked structure stacking in a hole injection layer, emission layer, electron injecting and transporting layer, or select stacking layers of some of these layers. However, in the emission layer typically includes a stack structure.

[0036] Meanwhile, although not shown in FIG. 1, can also form a protective layer on the second electrode 33, for example, can use glass to encapsulate pixels.

[0037] In one embodiment, the formation of the light blocking member 33a, so that light emitted from the organic layer 32 is not directly incident on the TFT active layer 2 or at least 2 of the TFT 23. Light blocking member can be non-linear.

[0038] As described above, when the active layer 23 is formed of an oxide semiconductor, it is desirable to block the light, oxygen, water and the like. Among them, the use of the first electrode and the second electrode 33 or 31 comprising the use of an organic light emitting display device of the manufacturing process of the encapsulation process to some extent, oxygen and water barrier. Alternatively, the light incident on the TFT 2, by the use of UV coating, a black matrix (black matrix) to block external light and so on. TFT light will, however, launch from 32 such as an organic layer organic light emitting device 3 having a wavelength of about 450nm blue 2 adversely affected.

[0039] S Jie, as can be shown in Figure 3 common organic light emitting display device seen in the light emitted from the organic layer 32 there are two paths may be incident to the TFT 2. The first path is the path 3 by the letter A represented in FIG. 21 is irradiated through the first path between the emitted light from the organic layer 32 through the source and drain of the sink 25 and the gate of the active layer 23. However, in this case, since i) the source electrode and the drain electrode 25 and the sink ii) the distance between the gate electrode 21 is typically about 350nm (blue light wavelength less than 450nm), light is irradiated so low probability of TFT 2 . The second path is the path in Figure 3 by the letter B, transmitted through the second path 32 of light from the organic layer by PDL 28 and the passivation layer 27 to the active layer 23 is irradiated. In this case, since i) the source electrode and the drain electrode 25 and the sink ii) the distance between the second electrode 23 is at least about 1800nm, so the light emitted from the organic layer 32 is likely to be directed to the active layer 23.

[0040] In one embodiment, the active layer 23 is formed around the hole in the PDL concept (or openings) ^ a. In addition, the hole 28a is formed in the second electrode 33 as a light blocking member 33a, so that light emitted from the organic layer 32 is not directly incident on the TFT 2. Hole 28a may be substantially formed immediately above the active layer 23 or on top of the source and drain regions, the source 25 and the sink drain respectively contacting the source and drain regions. The distance between the substrate and the organic light emitting layer between the substrate and the distance between the openings is substantially the same. In one embodiment, as the organic light emitting display device manufactured.

[0041] First, a gate electrode 21 is formed on the substrate 1. Then, the gate electrode 21 are sequentially stacked on the gate insulating layer 22, active layer 23 and the insulating layer M. Contact holes are formed in the insulating layer M, and then forming the source and drain sink 25 thereon. Thereafter, a passivation layer 27 is formed to cover the source electrode 25 and the drain sink. Passivation layer 27 is formed on the first electrode 31 is formed to cover the first concept PDL across the electrodes 31, after which the organic layer 31 on the first electrode 32 and the second electrode 33 is formed.

[0042] In one embodiment, the light incident from the organic layer 32 is emitted to the TFT 2 via the path corresponding to the portion of the PDL 28, hole 28a is formed in the PDL of View. In one embodiment, the hole 28a is formed in the PDL Views along the peripheral portion of the active layer 23, the active layer 23 so as to surround. It may have an annular hole 28a to surround the active layer 23. After the formation of the hole in the PDL View ^ a, are sequentially formed on the PDL Viewpoint organic layer 32 and the second electrode 33. Since the second electrode 33 is formed so as to cover the entire PDL PDL Concept 28, the holes are formed in the PDL ^ a concept of the second electrode 33 is also formed, therefore, it is consistent with a portion of the aperture ^ a shape of the second electrode 33. The second electrode 33 and the hole ^ a part of the same shape is used as the light blocking member 33a.

[0043] ^ a hole 28a and the hole in the light blocking member 33a is formed on the path from the organic layer 32 is incident on the TFT 2 of the light. In other words, the hole 28a and the hole ^ a light blocking member 33a is formed on at least a portion of TFT 2. In one embodiment, the apertures 28a and the holes ^ a light blocking member 33a is substantially formed directly over at least a portion 2 of the TFT, e.g., the active layer 23 above.

[0044] As described above, since the holes 28a formed in a portion of the PDL 28 surrounding the active layer 23, and through the aperture in the PDL 28 ^ 33 to the second electrode is formed in a light blocking member 33a a that can help prevent from the organic layer 32 emits light shines on the active layer 23. Jie S, as in Figure 1 by the letter C, the light emitted from the organic layer 32 is blocked the light blocking member 33a, and therefore can not propagate through the active layer 23.

[0045] In Figure 1, the PDL corresponding to the hole 28a of the portion 28 is completely removed; however, the present invention is not limited thereto, the PDL portion 28 may be formed to remove only the hole ^ a. However, regardless of whether the complete removal of the portion corresponding to the hole 28a PDL28, the distance between the light blocking member and the lower end portion 33a of the source electrode 25 and the drain of the sink can be smaller than the wavelength of blue light 450nm.

[0046] FIG. 2 is a diagram showing an organic light emitting display device includes an oxide semiconductor light blocking member when the negative bias thermal stability (NBTQ and Fig. 1 organic light emitting display device does not include a light blocking member NBTS graph when the oxide semiconductor. Referring to FIG. 2, (a) shows an oxide semiconductor in the initial stage of irradiation light without the NBTS graph, (b) shows a light blocking member and does not include emission from the organic layer light NBTS graph when an oxide semiconductor active layer is irradiated. As shown, the light blocking member including a case (c),, and the oxide semiconductor NBTS not irradiated with light at an initial stage (a) of FIG. 2 NBTS similar. Therefore, it can be seen that when including a light blocking member, emitted from the organic layer and the active layer of the light to shine most is blocked.

[0047] According to the present invention, at least one embodiment, to prevent the incident from the light emitted from the organic light emitting device 3 directly to the TFT 2, thereby improving the reliability of oxide, reduce product defects and improve the user's convenience.

[0048] According to the present invention, at least one embodiment, light is prevented from entering the active layer of a TFT-emitting organic light emitting device, thereby improving the stability of the active layer.

[0049] Despite the reference to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention has been particularly shown and described the present invention, those of ordinary skill will be understood that, without departing from the spirit and scope defined by the claims of the present invention case It may be made to the invention various changes in form and details.